# v 1.1.5 Changelog

## UPDATE BUG WARNING
- An improvement has been made to the timers for the invasion quests. However, if any timer was currently running, it can end up bugged. If see absolutely ridiculous numbers on the timer, like 82034239:45, you've got the bug. To fix it, enable cheats, use "/ftbquests editing_mode true", and then go to each affected quest, right click it, and click "Reset Progress." You can then turn the editing mode back off with "/ftbquests editing_mode false".

## Special Thanks
Thank you to SaloEater, who whipped up a JEI mod for External Moves in a day for this pack like it was nothing. You are invited to use it in your own packs!

## Mod Changes
- Mouse Tweaks removed - was always buggy and never worked quite the way it did in 1.12.x 
- Inventory Tweaks added - brings back middle mouse click-sorting. 
- Pixelmon External Moves JEI added - Created by SaloEater

## Spawn Fixes 
- Misdreavus line properly spawns at 'Midday' rather than 'Noon'

## Quest Fixes   
- Invasion questlines now use 'in game' timer settings instead of 'auto,' which was defaulting to system time and getting everyone ganked the moment they reopened their world. 
- The Creeper Captain invasion has been delayed until after you get lava. 
- To end the husk invasion, you now only need one peice of terracotta armor, not all four.
- Quest for steel from nuggets (and from ingots) have been moved; they are still in Metals and Gems.
- Starting a Fire quest now accurately only looks for one dependency. I'm not sure how it was working, previously. Maybe it wasn't.
- Immersive Engineering Kiln quest asked for wrong number of Kiln blocks.
- Invasion Shut-Off Valve has been made the same size as other quests.
- Fruits of Stone quest now correctly explains that Roggenrolla is the source of Basalt.

# New Quests
- Quest for Molten Steel from ingot using cinnabar has been added, to account for some steel ingot drops, as well as Molten steel from steel pickaxe, to account for Dhelmise's 'anchor'  
- Quest for Molten Nickel from ingot using cinnabar has been added to account for the possibility of a Nickel ingot drop from Aggron.  

## Forage Changes
- Apricorns have increased forage chance on Apricorn and Umbran logs.
- Berries have increased forage chance on berry logs. 
- Seeds have increased forage chance on dirt/grass.  
- Dawn/Dusk/Leaf stone shards have increased forage chance on their ores at their respective times of day (Dawn/Dusk/Anything Else). 
- Bone and Skull foraging has been improved and is now consistant across soul soil, soul sand, bone block, ice, packed ice, and blue ice. 
- It is now possible to forage evolutionary stone shards from their ores, under certain circumstances: 
    - Fire: Noon
    - Shiny: Midnight
    - Sun: Clear
    - Water: Raining
    - Thunder: Storm
    - Moon: Full Moon
    - Ice: Ice Layer 


## Recipe Fixes
- Fel Pumpkin recipe now includes magma cream and a nugget associated with the nether. 

## New Recipes
- Molten buckets of metal can now be created in the inventory, not just in quests. While these are actually less convenient (they require iron buckets), they're also there to help give players who don't like to read a clear route to obtaining steel.  

## Drop Fixes 
- Fixed Vanilla Pixelmon Drops as well as Modpack Errors, including:
    - Kingambit Bronze Broad Blade
    - Sneasler line (Hisuian Sneasle) Poison Barb
    - Dhelmise Lead Nugget
    - Togedemaru Lead Nugget
    - Wimpod Prismarine Shard
    - Klefki Silver Nugget
    - Carbink Nether Quartz
    - Flabebe (white) Osiria Rose
    - Floette (orange) Incan Lily
    - Copperajah Copper Plates 
    - Runerigus Phantom Membrane 
    - Larvesta Fire Stone Shard
    - Hydreigon Black Wool
    - Klink line Copper Nugget
    - Amoongus Big Root 
    - Foongus Weeping Milk Cap 
    - Eternatus Deep Sea Tooth
    - Rotom Small TV
    - Frosslass Blue Ice
    - Porygon line PC (Seperate colors for Spirit Palette)
    - Tangrowth Vine
    - Bastiodon Iron Rod
    - Shinx Glowstone Dust
    - Metagross Copper Gear
    - Clamperl Mana Pearl
    - Solrock Yellow Terracotta
    - Lunatone Silver Nugget
    - Altaria White Wool -> White Cherry Leaves
    - Flygon Sandstone 
    - Volbeat Red Cornflower and Begonia 
    - Mawile Manasteel sword -> Arrowhead
    - Sableye (Palette: None) Tumblestone
    - Donphan Andesite 
    - Steelix (Palette: Crystal) Marble
    - Girafarig Acacia Sapling 
    - Unown (all forms) Rune Air
    - Jumpluff Wool
    - Skiploom Pungent Root 
    - Igglybuff line Platinum Nugget 
    - Cyndaquil Rabbit Hide 
    - Omastar Nautilius Shell 
    - Koffing line Smokey Quartz 
    - Geodude line (Form: Alolan) Nickel (Nuggets, Dust)
    - Celesteela Aluminium Ingot -> Aluminium Block
    - Lunala and Solgaleo Starmetal Block
    - Diancie Fairy Gem -> Fairy Plate
    - Kyurem Ice Gem -> Ice Plate
    - Reshiram Fire Gem -> Fire Plate
    - Zekrom Electric Gem -> Electric Plate
    - Darkrai Dark Gem -> Dark Plate 
    - Skitty Pokemail
    - Slaking Pokemail 


## Drop Additions
- Copperajah and Cufant now drop Copper Nuggets in addition to plates. With 4+ different sources of copper in the pack, its hard to figure out which one to even look at to find drops. 
- Togedemaru's Arrowheads now drop more often.
- Volcarona drops Blaze Powder 
- Amoongus drops Weeping Milk Cap 
- Hoppip no longer drops Dandelion; Skiploom still does; all three drop beetroot
- Altaria drop chances improved, and can now carry the non hatchable dragon egg, like Hydregion and Dragalge
- Mawile's swords and iron nuggets were both changed to arrowheads, to symbolize teeth. Nickel was kept as nuggets to symbolize the body, and nickel drop change was increased. 
- Wigglytuff nugget drops tweaked. 
- Dragon scale drop changes improved. Garchomp permitted to drop.
- Ultra Beasts now drop Plates instead of Gems, and the chance is guarenteed. This also 'fixed' some of their broken gem drops.
- The following legendaries now drop Plates instead of Gems, and have had their drops improved. This will be an ongoing process to continue to improve legendary drop design. While we assume you will never want to faint a legendary, this at least helps make doing so accidentally less sad:
    - Mewtwo
    - Mew
    - Poipole
    - Nagandel
    - Diancie 
    - Kyurem 
    - Reshiram 
    - Zekrom 
    - Solgaleo
    - Lunala
    - Heatran
    - Regigigas
    - Cresselia
    - Manaphy
    - Darkrai
    - Victini
    - Shaymin 
    - Articuno (both forms)
    - Zapdos (both forms)
    - Moltres (both forms)
    - Uxie (spooky plate)
    - Mesprit (flame plate)
    - Azelf (wave plate)
    - Palkia
    - Dialga 
    - Arceus
    - Giratina 
    

- Melmetal and Meltan's drops are now blocks instead of ingots, and drop iron, silicon, silver, and platinum. 

## Known Bugs
- Silver is missing some forms, such as the Silver Rod. This affects nothing but my OCD. 
- JEI can't transfer items into crafting grids. You can potentially replaced JEI with REI, but that's an elaborate setup because REI is a fabric mod; and I'm told it introduces instability and can crash sometimes. 
- Pokemon are not spawning with moves appropriate to their level. This is a well known bug in 1.16.5 that will likely never be fixed because the Pixelmon team has moved on to 1.20.x  

## Discoveries and Tweaks
- Testers familiar with Botania mechanics discovered an alternative way to make Obsidian. Here were the steps:
    - Create Fel Pumpkins 
    - Turn them into fel blazes 
    - Put the fel blazes in a Tinkers' Construct smeltery 
    - Extract blaze blood from dying fel blaze (200 mb per fell blaze)
    - Pour the blaze blood into rods (1 per 100 mb) 
    - Turn the rods into Blaze Mesh (9 rods per mesh) 
    - Use a pure daisy to convert the mesh to Obsidian. 
- This method for Obsidian was utterly brilliant. It: 
    - Relies on a mechanic (Blaze Mesh -> Obsidian) that absolutely no one ever uses in regular play, and few people remember exists.
    - Is iron-limited, so one can't go too crazy, given that iron is not common. 
    - Requires gunpowder,  which is harvested from some of the same Pokemon as cinnabar (for steel rods) 
    - Requires pure daisy, which was also required to make snow for original method. 
    - Lets you use a lot of materials you have lying around which, e.g. rotten flesh. 
- However, it: 
    - Bypassed the need to ever create a habitat for fire mobs in overworld.  
    - Bypassed the blaze rod pokemon (Rapidash, Chandelure) entirely.  
    - Bypassed steel harvesting and rod production. 
    - Bypassed either cinnabar harvesting or metal press production.
    - Gave you access to blazing blood (which is a superior lava) for melting metals you aren't supposed to have access to until visiting the nether.
- Applying a very mild nerf is difficult. Consider: 
    - Getting nine fire stone shards (for a fire shovel) takes the right setup, but doesn't take a gigantic amount of time.  
    - Gunpowder and cinnabar are harvested from some of the same Pokemon. 
    - Requiring a fire stone for the recipe makes it too expensive, as you have to kill 9 fel blazes for 2 obsidian, or 45 for 10, which is 5x what you'd need to do it the regular way.  
    - Requiring a metal nugget (e.g. steel) for the recipe is also a problem, as that would be 10 ingots, 2.5x what you need for the other method.
    - Cobalt scarcity in the overworld prevents tier-jumping from being too extensive.
    - This method SHOULD be at least slightly better, to reward clever players who understand interaction mechanics between mods well. 
- Therefore, we shall only slightly increase the difficulty in crafting the pumpkins, by allowing the use of magma cream and either drifloon quartz or yamask gold nuggets, and ensuring the recipe becomes much easier after reaching the nether.






