# v 1.1.4 Changelog

## New Quests  
- Quest called 'What to Steal?' added to 'Types of Forage' to clue in players that they can steal pine leaves from Pineco.  Since the quests leading up to 'Leaf Expert' in the 'There is Nothing' chapter are all hidden, the players have no idea that there's a reason to be gathering every leaf they can find, and certainly no hint that one of these leaf types is sneakily hidden as a held item from one specific Pokemon. This should make it more likely that some players are getting to and completing 'Leaf Expert.'  
- Bubbel quest added to "Depths of Despair" chapter.  
- Several new quests for helpful flowers added to the 'Druidism' chapter. 
- Containment Chalice quest added to "The Stars" chapter.  
- Additional guidebook quests added to 'Tips and Tricks' 
- Additional sand quest added to Tips and tricks to try and decrease the chance players get stuck looking for sand
- Steel Rod quest added to the 'Sinking Sensation' chapter.
- "Catch them All: Petal Edition" quest added for creating all mystical flowers.


## Quest Fixes   
- 'Snow and Ice,' a quest in 'A Sinking Feeling' was not meant to be repeatable. The repeatable flag has been removed. 
= 'Flint and Steel,' a quest in 'A Sinking Feeling,' has had its named changed to 'Starting a Fire.' It was meant to only require one method to start a fire but instead required all four. This has been fixd. 
- Some quests with default names had their names altered to make it clearer what their purpose was.  
- Slimewood tools quest fixed to check for NBT properly (by not using an OR filter)
- Boss-spawning quests in 'Evil Forces' have been made properly repeatable.  
- Mob-drop quests in 'Evil Forces' have been made properly repeatable.  


## Recipe Fixes  
- Invalid json (extra comma) fixed in amethyst_from_ore_oab.json and ruby_from_ore_bn.json
- Invalid json (missing brace) fixed in strength_2_charm.json  
- Improper ingredient name in charm_base and charm_2_base. botania:spellbinding_cloth changed to botania:spell_cloth.  
- Improper tag name in Tinker's Better Compat's vanilla manasteel_nugget_sand.json, Batter Compat itself uses tconstruct:single_use/nugget instead of the proper tconstruct:casts/single_use/nugget.  
- Improper ingredient name in Fossil Machine Display. pixelmon:light_workplace changed to pixelmon:lightworkplace.  
- Improper ingredient name in charms:blindness_charm. pixelmon:lure_darkness_weak changed to pixelmon:lure_dark_weak.  
- Improper ingredient name in botania:petal_apothecary/light_gray_mystical_flower. minecraft:oxeye_dasiy changed to minecraft:oxeye_daisy.  
- Improper ingredient name in Elementium Block. botania:fairy_block changed to materialis:fairy_block and then to a tag, forge/storage_blocks:fairy.  
- Seared brick recipe for cauldron changed so as to not interfere with the tinkers construct basin. 
- Fixed 'lignite' incorrectly spelled 'liginite' in several locations. 
- Fungal and Default Petal Apothecary recipes switched. Shroomish now drops fungal cobblestone instead of stone to make it more straightforward to see how to build the fungal apothecary in the JEI. Breloom still drops the stone variant.   
- The recipe for the luminous crafting table no longer accidentally overwrites the recipe for the resonating wand.  

## Bug Fixes  
- Invalid json (missing comma) fixed in gothitelle.set.json. Additionally, some of the spawns were for Gothorita, not Gothitelle, and have been fixed
- Invalid json (extra comma) fixed in morgrem.set.json. Additionally, one of the spawns was for Ralts, not Morgrem, and has been fixed.  
- Spelling for fluids and recipes involved in brewing X Special Defense and X Defense standardized to use the 'defense' spelling of the word; previously, a few areas used 'defence,' which is the British English equivalent and therefore equally valid, but which is not the spelling already in use by Pixelmon.  
- Invalid commands (extra spaces) fixed in the functions for summoning fire, thunder, and ice shrines.  

## Tag Fixes  
- ghosts:crystal_block now correctly adds lavender crystal, not lavendar crystal.  
- forge:foods/lunch/sandwich now correctly adds bacon_sandwich, not bacon_sandwhich.  
- Added forge/bronze tag, which enables sun stone weapons  
- forge ore tags created for unique byg ores like emeraldite, lignite, anthracite, pendorite, and ametrine.  

## Quest Tweaks
- The "Vertical Exploration" chapter has been renamed "Vertical Pokedex" to help indicate its function.
- Circular quests are all either optional or repeatable. Whether or not a quest is optional has been tweaked. While (under certain definitions) many quests of this modpack are technically 'optional,' circle shaped quests usually do not build to anything bigger than themselves, and you aren't missing any big questlines if you ignore them. 
- The sand cast quest now explicitly states that soul sand can be used, and also directs players to the Gems/Metals tab if they want to find regular sand. The regular sand quest should now be visible even if the soul sand/glass quest has not been completed. 
- The leaf quests leading up to 'Leaf Expert' have been made non-secret. They shouldn't just be rewarding thievery, they should be working together with the 'What To Steal' quest to actively encourage it.  
- Whether a quest needs its dependencies to be finished before it is visible has been tweaked for some quests, especially in Starting a Smithy, to hopefully help players better understands where a path is heading. 
- I originally intentionally made the entire Vertical Exploration questline visible from top to bottom so people could plan out where they wanted to go, but this led to information overload for testers. Players now need to click a check box for each layer to unveil the Pokemon for that layer, so they can focus on one thing at a time. People who want all the quests revealed just have to fall off the island a few times and click checkboxes. 
- Vertical Exploration quests now have an explanation of what constitute each type of spawn area, such as 'Outside' 'Manmade' 'Indoors' 'Underground' 'Beach' 'Treetops' etc. These descriptions are only in the first quest of each category (usually the unevolved Pokemon) but that should be enough for right now to help  players who aren't familiar with Pixelmon's vanilla spawning mechanics.  
- Coral added to Drowned Dimension quests in 'The Depths of Despair.' 
- Text added to Mystical Flower quests in 'Druidism' chapter.  
- Pin Missile added as reward for two cactus based quests.  
- Nether Fuecoco quest given rewards. 
- More shards added as reward to early Nether quests. 
- "A Sinking Sensation" chapter also opens if you go partway through the Druidism quests. 
- Pecha Berry Quest updated to reflect Venonat spawns on the Murk, not soil layer. 
 
## Content Tweaks
- Bronze rods and plates have been fixed and correctly added.  
- Tinkers Archery metals now propertly have plates/gears/rods/dusts.  
- Pixelmon Guard Spec fluid correctly added (for cauldron brewing)  


### Blanked Out Recipes  
json files for deleted recipes should no longer cause 'errors' in the log when loaded, because instead of being entirely empty, they have a dummy recipes (ie use barrier blocks to make barrier blocks) inside them:  

- magma_block.json  
- immersive engineering rods 
- thermal foundation gears  
- floral fertilizer  

Additionally, the blank json files governing the hemp seed drops from grass and long grass were restored, but had their loot modifiers reduced to 0.0 (0%).

## Known Bugs  
Tinkers Better Combat (TicBC) is set up to respect the tconstruct setting which governs whether tconstruct forces all materials to show, regardless of whether the mods that have those materials are present. However it doesn't actually successfully do this. And just tries to load everything, regardless of what that seting is. As such it clutters the log with a zillion errors for every material. 

## Painful Debugging Notes  
If you accidentally write a recipe, and an ingredient has a captial letter, the datapack will fail to load. The error message will not indicate which file has the error, and will instead say that the bug is with the name of a 'resource' (not 'ingredient') called modname:Accidental_capital_here. In my case, I spent hours removing and re-adding recipes, deleting new structures I'd been trying out, and reverting work, prior to recalling that a newly added tag may have allowed a recipe I hadn't even touched... to load a little bit more of itself than it had previously loaded. It turned out that an ingredient farther down on the aforementioned recipe exhibited the capitalization problem.  






